# OutputTransaction

A list of output transactions.

## Properties
Name | Type | Description | Notes
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**transaction_id** | **str** | The unique identifier for the transaction. | 
**type** | **str** | The type of the transaction e.g. &#39;Buy&#39;, &#39;Sell&#39;. The transaction type should have been pre-configured via the System Configuration API endpoint. | 
**description** | **str** | The description of the transaction. This only exists on transactions generated by LUSID e.g. a holdings adjustment transaction. | [optional] 
**instrument_identifiers** | **Dict[str, str]** | A set of instrument identifiers that can resolve the transaction to a unique instrument. | [optional] 
**instrument_scope** | **str** | The scope in which the instrument lies. | [optional] 
**instrument_uid** | **str** | The unique Lusid Instrument Id (LUID) of the instrument that the transaction is in. | 
**transaction_date** | **datetime** | The date of the transaction. | 
**settlement_date** | **datetime** | The settlement date of the transaction. | 
**units** | **float** | The number of units transacted in the associated instrument. | 
**transaction_amount** | **float** | The total value of the transaction in the transaction currency. | [optional] 
**transaction_price** | [**TransactionPrice**](TransactionPrice.md) |  | [optional] 
**total_consideration** | [**CurrencyAndAmount**](CurrencyAndAmount.md) |  | [optional] 
**exchange_rate** | **float** | The exchange rate between the transaction and settlement currency (settlement currency being represented by the TotalConsideration.Currency). For example if the transaction currency is in USD and the settlement currency is in GBP this this the USD/GBP rate. | [optional] 
**transaction_to_portfolio_rate** | **float** | The exchange rate between the transaction and portfolio currency. For example if the transaction currency is in USD and the portfolio currency is in GBP this this the USD/GBP rate. | [optional] 
**transaction_currency** | **str** | The transaction currency. | [optional] 
**properties** | [**Dict[str, PerpetualProperty]**](PerpetualProperty.md) | Set of unique transaction properties and associated values to stored with the transaction. Each property will be from the &#39;Transaction&#39; domain. | [optional] 
**counterparty_id** | **str** | The identifier for the counterparty of the transaction. | [optional] 
**source** | **str** | The source of the transaction. This is used to look up the appropriate transaction group set in the transaction type configuration. | [optional] 
**transaction_status** | **str** | The status of the transaction. The available values are: Active, Amended, Cancelled, ActiveReversal, ActiveTrueUp, CancelledTrueUp | [optional] 
**entry_date_time** | **datetime** | The asAt datetime that the transaction was added to LUSID. | [optional] 
**cancel_date_time** | **datetime** | If the transaction has been cancelled, the asAt datetime that the transaction was cancelled. | [optional] 
**realised_gain_loss** | [**List[RealisedGainLoss]**](RealisedGainLoss.md) | The collection of realised gains or losses resulting from relevant transactions e.g. a sale transaction. The cost used in calculating the realised gain or loss is determined by the accounting method defined when the transaction portfolio is created. | [optional] 
**holding_ids** | **List[int]** | The collection of single identifiers for the holding within the portfolio. The holdingId is constructed from the LusidInstrumentId, sub-holding keys and currrency and is unique within the portfolio. | [optional] 
**source_type** | **str** | The type of source that the transaction originated from, eg: InputTransaction, InstrumentEvent, HoldingAdjustment | [optional] 
**source_instrument_event_id** | **str** | The unique ID of the instrument event that the transaction is related to. | [optional] 
**custodian_account** | [**CustodianAccount**](CustodianAccount.md) |  | [optional] 
**transaction_group_id** | **str** | The identifier for grouping economic events across multiple transactions | [optional] 
**resolved_transaction_type_details** | [**TransactionTypeDetails**](TransactionTypeDetails.md) |  | [optional] 
**gross_transaction_amount** | **float** | The total gross value of the transaction in the transaction currency. | [optional] 
**otc_confirmation** | [**OtcConfirmation**](OtcConfirmation.md) |  | [optional] 
**order_id** | [**ResourceId**](ResourceId.md) |  | [optional] 
**allocation_id** | [**ResourceId**](ResourceId.md) |  | [optional] 
**accounting_date** | **datetime** | The accounting date of the transaction. | [optional] 

## Example

```python
from lusid.models.output_transaction import OutputTransaction

# TODO update the JSON string below
json = "{}"
# create an instance of OutputTransaction from a JSON string
output_transaction_instance = OutputTransaction.from_json(json)
# print the JSON string representation of the object
print OutputTransaction.to_json()

# convert the object into a dict
output_transaction_dict = output_transaction_instance.to_dict()
# create an instance of OutputTransaction from a dict
output_transaction_form_dict = output_transaction.from_dict(output_transaction_dict)
```
[Back to Model list](../README.md#documentation-for-models) &#8226; [Back to API list](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) &#8226; [Back to README](../README.md)


