# TotalReturnSwap

A swap in which one party makes payments based on leg rates (fixed or floating) while the other party makes payments based on the return of an underlying instrument. The underlying instrument can be provided as an inline economic definition or as a reference instrument pointing to an already upserted instrument. A reference instrument in this case would consist of instrument scope, instrument id and instrument id type (ISIN, LUID etc.).              Note that TRS currently only supports an asset of Bond or ComplexBond, no other instruments are allowed. Support for additional instrument types will be added in the future.              This instrument has multiple legs, to see how legs are used in LUSID see [knowledge base article KA-02252](https://support.lusid.com/knowledgebase/article/KA-02252).              | Leg Index | Leg Identifier | Description | | --------- | -------------- | ----------- | | 1 | AssetLeg | Cash flows relating to the returns generated by an underlying bond. | | 2 | FundingLeg | The funding leg of the swap. | | 3 | AdditionalPayments | Cash flows relating to any additional payments (optional). |
## Properties
Name | Type | Description | Notes
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**start_date** | **datetime** | The start date of the instrument. This is normally synonymous with the trade-date. | 
**maturity_date** | **datetime** | The final maturity date of the instrument. This means the last date on which the instruments makes a payment of any amount. For the avoidance of doubt, that is not necessarily prior to its last sensitivity date for the purposes of risk; e.g. instruments such as Constant Maturity Swaps (CMS) often have sensitivities to rates that may well be observed or set prior to the maturity date, but refer to a termination date beyond it. | 
**asset_leg** | [**AssetLeg**](AssetLeg.md) |  | 
**funding_leg** | [**InstrumentLeg**](InstrumentLeg.md) |  | 
**additional_payments** | [**List[AdditionalPayment]**](AdditionalPayment.md) | Optional additional payments at a given date e.g. to level off an uneven total return swap. The dates must be distinct and either all payments are Pay or all payments are Receive. | [optional] 
**time_zone_conventions** | [**TimeZoneConventions**](TimeZoneConventions.md) |  | [optional] 
**instrument_type** | **str** | The available values are: QuotedSecurity, InterestRateSwap, FxForward, Future, ExoticInstrument, FxOption, CreditDefaultSwap, InterestRateSwaption, Bond, EquityOption, FixedLeg, FloatingLeg, BespokeCashFlowsLeg, Unknown, TermDeposit, ContractForDifference, EquitySwap, CashPerpetual, CapFloor, CashSettled, CdsIndex, Basket, FundingLeg, FxSwap, ForwardRateAgreement, SimpleInstrument, Repo, Equity, ExchangeTradedOption, ReferenceInstrument, ComplexBond, InflationLinkedBond, InflationSwap, SimpleCashFlowLoan, TotalReturnSwap, InflationLeg, FundShareClass, FlexibleLoan, UnsettledCash, Cash, MasteredInstrument, LoanFacility, FlexibleDeposit, FlexibleRepo | 
## Example

```python
from lusid.models.total_return_swap import TotalReturnSwap
from typing import Any, Dict, List, Optional
from pydantic.v1 import Field, StrictStr, conlist, validator
from datetime import datetime
start_date: datetime = # Replace with your value
maturity_date: datetime = # Replace with your value
asset_leg: AssetLeg = # Replace with your value
funding_leg: InstrumentLeg = # Replace with your value
additional_payments: Optional[conlist(AdditionalPayment)] = # Replace with your value
time_zone_conventions: Optional[TimeZoneConventions] = # Replace with your value
instrument_type: StrictStr = "example_instrument_type"
total_return_swap_instance = TotalReturnSwap(start_date=start_date, maturity_date=maturity_date, asset_leg=asset_leg, funding_leg=funding_leg, additional_payments=additional_payments, time_zone_conventions=time_zone_conventions, instrument_type=instrument_type)

```

[Back to Model list](../README.md#documentation-for-models) &#8226; [Back to API list](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) &#8226; [Back to README](../README.md)

